[MUSIC]
In this video, I'm gonna take you
through my flow diagram for my story.
And we're gonna talk about
a couple of tips and
tricks in terms of creating some story
flow for you to get this into your game.
Just a note here, just a caveat that if
you're into game design this is a great
opportunity to flex your muscles.
If this is not your thing,
not a problem at all, just do the minimum,
just do enough so
you understand the process.
And then you can move on to the next part
of the content, next part of the course.
So let's jump in and
talk about what I've created here.
So we need a story flow.
I'll show you how I've
created my story flow.
I've used draw.io.
So if you go to your browser, draw.io.
At the moment, this is a free-to-use,
totally cool place to go.
Hopefully, it stays that way
in the future, who knows?
But for now,
this is the way I've been doing it.
You can save your diagrams to the cloud,
to Google Drive, and
I've got mine on my device.
If I click there, it allows me to create
a new diagram, which you might wanna do or
you can open up my diagram.
I'm gonna share that with you in
the resources against this lecture, and
I'm gonna open up my diagram now.
It opens it up as an XML.
It's the Steam Punk Game Diagram.
And you can see we've got all
these flowcharting tools.
And then I've created some boxes for
my story with some ending states and
some flow throughout it.
So feel free to create your own mechanism.
You don't have to follow mine at all.
You don't have to do
this number of states.
this number of choices.
This is me just coming up with
a few minutes of early gameplay
that I could potentially extend
the rest of my game onto.
I start off in the top left and I have
some branching choices for the player.
I have some choices that lead
down to this game over state and
some choices which lead to these
two different success states.
And you can reach success from any point
and can reach game over from any point.
So let me just show you a little
bit how I've created things here.
I've used a numbering system, where I
start with A1, and then when I make my
choices, the top choice over here, I've
got take them head on rush the guards.
That is A2 and
the second choice here is A3.
So in each instance, whichever choice
I'm doing first is the first number.
So over here where I've got,
A3 is gonna lead to A4 and A5.
The top choice is A4 and
the next choice is A5.
It gets a little bit messy if you decide,
you know what, maybe I should remove this,
or I should insert a new one.
So your numbers might not become
consecutive after a while,
if you're doing some edits to this flow.
But so long as they stay in order.
So if you wanted to insert something
in-between this Outside Hangar and
Emergency Exit,
could call it A1b, for example.
So there's a few ways to do it.
There's no absolute,
there's no right or wrong.
I'm just showing you my particular
system but there's no perfect way.
Given that we're bringing information,
we're bringing data from an external
tool and bringing it into Unity,
there's gonna be a little bit of
compromise in how we go about doing this.
And I've created some others where
I'm starting with B, B1, B2,
etc just to show that that's a different
storyline, different branch.
So I can have them a little bit separated.
Here's the A branch and
here's the B branch.
So within this tool you can create a new,
I've used this heading tool over here.
You click on that,
it brings it into your area for you.
Within this you can change
the name of the heading,
or change the heading I should say,
so This Room.
And then you can change
the text that you have in it.
Here is our story.
And then I always have some sort of,
what do you want to do?
And then 1 option and 2 options.
So that's the general structure
of how I'd like things out here.
And when we wish to connect our arrows,
let me just remove this and
remove this, super strike forward.
I just move my boxes to where I think they
should fit within my overall diagram here.
So from our B1, which is opening a door,
you wait it out after perhaps 20 minutes.
You hear feet shuffling, blah, blah, blah.
What do you wanna do?
Option number 1 is over here to B3.
So you just mouse over and when you see
the green circle, you drag that and
an arrow appears.
We can drag it and
click it over into this box over here.
Likewise from here,
green circle drag over there.
And then I can move this around and
the arrow is going to go where it still
remain connected to the box there.
Okay, so let's use the general
flash straight forward.
I'll let you play around with it
if you want to get a little
bit more sophisticated.
You can change the colors
I have on the right.
You can change the text.
You can do all that kind of good stuff but
I'm not here to teach you how
to use this particular tool.
I'm just here to teach you how to
create some good story flow and to be
able to import that into Unity to get that
into your engine, get it into the game.
Now a couple other things
I'll show you in here.
I've tended to just have two options most
of the time mainly because if I have
three, it becomes really messy and
there's so much content to create.
I felt that two was pretty interesting.
You might wanna get more sophisticated
than I have, which is totally cool.
I've created moments where
the player has two options and
the both options end up leading
back to this option over here.
So A3, you can either go
to the option of A4 or A5.
If you go to A4, there is only
one option which takes you to A5.
So it's totally fine, you don't
have to have option 1 and option 2.
In here,
you can see I've got just one option.
And then that will lead to
this next state over here.
I've also got situations where
we go through the dialog,
we go through the story and
then at the end, I just continue.
So we'll continue this story,
it's not a choice to make.
It's just continuing on.
I also have situations over here where
both the options lead to the next state.
The play doesn't necessarily know that and
we don't wanna tell them that, hey,
it didn't really matter
what you chose in there.
But it's cool for us to give the illusion
of choice, even if we're not gonna go and
create all these extra states for it.
So that's a situation.
You don't wanna do that too much because
if people are replaying eventually they'll
figure it out.
But I think a couple of those is okay.
Also, multiple branches that lead
down to our game over state.
I usually start with, okay, so in this
part of my story, what do I see happening?
And from my story, it's airship pilot.
He starts off kind of trying to get to his
ship and then there is these block hinges
get in the way and eventually he either
succeeds or he doesn't, he perishes.
And so on that path, here is where he
starts and here is a success point.
And then I like to put a midpoint
somewhere in the middle as well.
So for example, it might be one of
these where he sees a couple of people.
Over here's a couple of people talking,
and he has a choice at that point.
I wanna have a few branches
lead to that point there, but
this becomes a bit of a hub.
There are a few things feed into there and
then from there a few
things feed outwards.
So there are a few different approaches
you can take with your story.
So that leads us to our challenge,
which is to create a story.
Use Draw.io or something similar, a
similar tool, like I said, a mind mapping
tool, or you can even use a spreadsheet
if you wanted to, or a paper and pencil.
Create your own story, create some
flows in there, states and transitions.
And then share a screenshot of your
flow diagram with our community.
I'm really interested to know what you
came up with and it's pretty cool to see
weird, big, convoluted,
crazy flow diagrams of these stories.
I've seen a couple of them already so
I'm interested in seeing
what you come up with.
And as I said before, if you're into this,
if you wanna practice
being a game designer,
if you wanna flex your narrative design
muscles, here's a big opportunity for you.
If this is not your thing,
no worries, just do the minimum and
that is totally cool.
In the next video, we'll take our
content and we'll put it into Unity so
that we can see our full story
actually within our engine.
So great work, and
I'll see you in the next video.